     
     Chapter 02 Worksheet

     
     
  1. Give an example of a binary number. (While a number such as ``1'' can be a
     binary, decimal, and hexadecimal number, try coming up with an example that
     better illustrates the differences between the different bases of numbers.)
    001
  2. Give an example of a decimal number.
    213
  3. Give an example of a hexadecimal number.
    010
  4. Convert the numbers 1, 10, 100, 1000, and 10000 from binary to decimal.
    1,2,8,16
  5. What is a compiler?
    a program thats written in a certain language and turns it into a code that the processor uses
  6. What is source code?
  
    commands that make up and executable computer program
    
  7. What is machine language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)
  
    a language like bianry and hexidecimal, instructions thats a computer can read
    
  8. What is a first generation language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)

    altair 8800b
 
  9. What is a second generation language?

    assembly language
  
 10. What is a third generation language? (Explain, don't just give one example.)

        COBOL, third gen languages use a compiler to turn the source code into a machine code
 
 11. What is an interpreter and how does it differ from a compiler?

    interpreters interpret the source code into machine language instantly
 
 12. Search the web and find some of the most popular programming languages.
     List the website(s) you got the information from and what the languages are.
     
     java 
     python
     C
     ruby
    Javascript
    C#
    PHP
    https://www.inc.com/larry-kim/10-most-popular-programming-languages-today.html
    
 13. Look at the job boards and see what languages people are looking for.
     List the languages and the job board you looked at.
     
     Most popular are python and javaacript and SQL 
     http://www.codingdojo.com/blog/9-most-in-demand-programming-languages-of-2017/

 14. What is the difference between the ``syntax'' and ``semantics'' of a
     language?

 15. Pick a piece of technology, other than a computer you use regularly. Briefly
     describe the hardware and software that run on it.

     A car
     
     it has windows, windsheilds, a radiom, sometimes a UI interface in the front of the car, the speedomoter.
